docs/v240/forms_tasks.md, before:

---
title: Release Notes 2.4.0
description: Forms Tasks
sass:
  style: compressed
---

# Introducing Forms Tasks: Smarter Candidate Data Collection

This release introduces a powerful new capability within the Talent Catalog: Forms Tasks — a 
flexible, scalable framework that simplifies how we collect, update, and manage candidate data.

Forms Tasks expand on the existing Tasks system by allowing multiple pieces of related information 
to be gathered in a structured form — all from within a single task. This is especially valuable in 
workflows where detailed, multi-field data is required, such as government submissions or 
multi-step candidate onboarding.

## Why Forms Tasks Matter

Until now, candidate tasks were limited to:

- 📎 Simple Upload Tasks (e.g., to upload a scan of a passport)

- 💬 Question Tasks (e.g. to submit the answer to a single question -- just one piece of data)

- ✅ Simple Acknowledgement Tasks (e.g., to confirm that an action has been taken)

Forms Tasks build on this capability by supporting the collection of multiple fields and different
types of information all in one go, creating much richer interactions with candidates and more 
complex workflows — all within the familiar Tasks experience.

## First Application: Italy Train-to-Hire Program

The first rollout of Forms Tasks supports the [Italy train-to-hire initiative](italy_train_to_hire.md), 
where candidates (and their relocating family members) must provide:

- Travel document scans 
- Refugee status and ID documents 
- Key data fields extracted from each

Rather than relying on spreadsheets or email follow-ups, candidates now complete structured Form 
Tasks that prompt them to upload documents and fill in related data directly in the platform — 
reducing delays, errors, and manual handling.

## What’s New in the Candidate Experience

- 📄 **Integrated Forms**: Candidates see and complete forms directly within their task list 

- 💾 **Save-as-you-go**: Forms support in-progress saving and later updates, similar to registration 
and intakes

- 🧾 **Single source of truth**: Data collected via Forms Tasks can draw from and update both standard 
candidate fields and custom properties

## Future Applications

Forms Tasks lay the groundwork for a range of future use cases:

- 🛂 Self-service intake processes: Enable structured out-of-band intakes for new candidates.

- 📢 Proactive job opportunity outreach: Support recruiter workflows by sending select jobs to 
qualified candidates and collecting expressions of interest.

- 📊 Partner-initiated data requests: Enable, for example, UNHCR, IOM, and others to initiate 
structured outreach (e.g., RSD verification, resettlement readiness).

These enhancements align with our goal of making the Talent Catalog the trusted, up-to-date source 
of candidate data across diverse use cases.

## What’s Next

- Expanding use of the Forms Task library for different partner and program needs 
- Improving form export capabilities (e.g., PDF snapshots for government use)
- Supporting conditional logic in forms (e.g., show/hide fields based on earlier answers)
- Exploring integration with [CASI](casi_framework.md) for automated candidate guidance

Commit message:

Add tracking features and update partner references in Forms Tasks documentation

docs/v240/forms_tasks.md, after:

---
title: Release Notes 2.4.0
description: Forms Tasks
sass:
  style: compressed
---

# Introducing Forms Tasks: Smarter Candidate Data Collection

This release introduces a powerful new capability within the Talent Catalog: Forms Tasks — a 
flexible, scalable framework that simplifies how we collect, update, and manage candidate data.

Forms Tasks expand on the existing Tasks system by allowing multiple pieces of related information 
to be gathered in a structured form — all from within a single task. This is especially valuable in 
workflows where detailed, multi-field data is required, such as government submissions or 
multi-step candidate onboarding.

## Why Forms Tasks Matter

Until now, candidate tasks were limited to:

- 📎 Simple Upload Tasks (e.g., to upload a scan of a passport)

- 💬 Question Tasks (e.g. to submit the answer to a single question -- just one piece of data)

- ✅ Simple Acknowledgement Tasks (e.g., to confirm that an action has been taken)

Forms Tasks build on this capability by supporting the collection of multiple fields and different
types of information all in one go, creating much richer interactions with candidates and more 
complex workflows — all within the familiar Tasks experience.

The nice thing about tasks is that they have built-in tracking, time limits and reminders as well as 
automated assignment through lists.

## First Application: Italy Train-to-Hire Program

The first rollout of Forms Tasks supports the [Italy train-to-hire initiative](italy_train_to_hire.md), 
where candidates (and their relocating family members) must provide:

- Travel document scans 
- Refugee status and ID documents 
- Key data fields extracted from each

Rather than relying on spreadsheets or email follow-ups, candidates now complete structured Form 
Tasks that prompt them to upload documents and fill in related data directly in the platform — 
reducing delays, errors, and manual handling.

## What’s New in the Candidate Experience

- 📄 **Integrated Forms**: Candidates see and complete forms directly within their task list 

- 💾 **Save-as-you-go**: Forms support in-progress saving and later updates, similar to registration 
and intakes

- 🧾 **Single source of truth**: Data collected via Forms Tasks can draw from and update both standard 
candidate fields and custom properties

## Future Applications

Forms Tasks lay the groundwork for a range of future use cases:

- 🛂 Self-service intake processes: Enable structured out-of-band intakes for new candidates.

- 📢 Proactive job opportunity outreach: Support recruiter workflows by sending select jobs to 
qualified candidates and collecting expressions of interest.

- 📊 Partner-initiated data requests: Enable, for example, TBB, and others to initiate 
structured outreach (e.g., RSD verification, resettlement readiness).

These enhancements align with our goal of making the Talent Catalog the trusted, up-to-date source 
of candidate data across diverse use cases.

## What’s Next

- Expanding use of the Forms Task library for different partner and program needs 
- Improving form export capabilities (e.g., PDF snapshots for government use)
- Supporting conditional logic in forms (e.g., show/hide fields based on earlier answers)
- Exploring integration with [CASI](casi_framework.md) for automated candidate guidance
