docs/v240/privacy_agreements.md, before:

---
title: Release Notes 2.4.0
description: Privacy Agreements Review - GDPR Compliance
sass:
  style: compressed
---

# Upgrading Privacy Agreements for GDPR Compliance
To meet the evolving legal and operational needs of the Talent Catalog, this release delivers a 
comprehensive upgrade of our data protection agreements and privacy policies, aligning them
with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) — the global benchmark for data privacy.

While GDPR originates from the European Union, its standards have been widely adopted worldwide. 
GDPR compliance positions the Talent Catalog for responsible data handling across jurisdictions, 
including the UK and USA.

🔗 [Official GDPR Website](https://commission.europa.eu/law/law-topic/data-protection_en)

🔗 [GDPR Guide for Organizations](https://gdpr.eu/)

## Why This Matters
The previous data protection agreements:

- Were outdated and lacked references to modern data privacy frameworks. 
- Applied only to TBB, excluding third-party source partners. 
- Focused solely on labour mobility, ignoring broader candidate support (e.g., CASI, Offers to 
Assist). 
- Did not distinguish between data controllers and processors, as required by GDPR.

This upgrade resolves these issues with a more inclusive, transparent, and standardised approach.
The new policies have been developed in **consultation with legal experts** to confirm full 
compliance with GDPR

## Key Updates in This Release

**1. Source Partner Privacy Policies**

Each source partner will now have a dedicated GDPR-compliant privacy notice displayed to 
candidates during registration and accessible at any time.

These are based on the GDPR template: https://gdpr.eu/privacy-notice/

💡 Every candidate is associated with one source partner — usually TBB or a UNHCR partner — which 
determines which privacy notice they see.

**2. Candidate Notification and Consent Process**

With this release the consent process has been transitioned from physical signatures to electronic 
consent for ease of use and efficiency.

With around 150,000 candidates on the platform, all users must be informed and prompted to accept 
the updated agreements. This will be done through:

✅ Social media announcements prompting logins and consent

✅ Targeted WhatsApp and comms to key candidate groups

✅ Email campaigns for broad coverage

🧹 This also offers an opportunity for long-awaited data cleanup — removing stale accounts and 
clarifying agreement status for each user.

Commit message:

Update with support text for GDPR principles

docs/v240/privacy_agreements.md, after:

---
title: Release Notes 2.4.0
description: Privacy Agreements Review - GDPR Compliance
sass:
  style: compressed
---

# Upgrading Privacy Agreements for GDPR Compliance
To meet the evolving legal and operational needs of the Talent Catalog, this release delivers a 
comprehensive upgrade of our data protection agreements and privacy policies, aligning them
with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) — the global benchmark for data privacy.

We are enthusiastic supporters of GDPR, whose principles of transparency, user control, and data 
minimisation have aligned with Talent Catalog values since the very beginning.

While GDPR originates from the European Union, its standards have been widely adopted worldwide. 
GDPR compliance positions the Talent Catalog for responsible data handling across jurisdictions, 
including the UK and USA.

🔗 [Official GDPR Website](https://commission.europa.eu/law/law-topic/data-protection_en)

🔗 [GDPR Guide for Organizations](https://gdpr.eu/)

## Why This Matters
The previous data protection agreements:

- Were outdated and lacked references to modern data privacy frameworks. 
- Applied only to TBB, excluding third-party source partners. 
- Focused solely on labour mobility, ignoring broader candidate support (e.g., CASI, Offers to 
Assist). 
- Did not distinguish between data controllers and processors, as required by GDPR.

This upgrade resolves these issues with a more inclusive, transparent, and standardised approach.
The new policies have been developed in **consultation with legal experts** to confirm full 
compliance with GDPR

## Key Updates in This Release

**1. Source Partner Privacy Policies**

Each source partner will now have a dedicated GDPR-compliant privacy notice displayed to 
candidates during registration and accessible at any time.

These are based on the GDPR template: https://gdpr.eu/privacy-notice/

💡 Every candidate is associated with one source partner — usually TBB or a UNHCR partner — which 
determines which privacy notice they see.

**2. Candidate Notification and Consent Process**

With this release the consent process has been transitioned from physical signatures to electronic 
consent for ease of use and efficiency.

With around 150,000 candidates on the platform, all users must be informed and prompted to accept 
the updated agreements. This will be done through:

✅ Social media announcements prompting logins and consent

✅ Targeted WhatsApp and comms to key candidate groups

✅ Email campaigns for broad coverage

🧹 This also offers an opportunity for long-awaited data cleanup — removing stale accounts and 
clarifying agreement status for each user.
