docs/v240/tc_ui_redesign.md, before:

---
title: Release Notes 2.4.0
description: TC UI Redesign - Phase 1
sass:
  style: compressed
---

## Introducing Our New UI: Cleaner, Sharper, and More Scalable
The Talent Catalog just got a major visual refresh. 🚀
Our new interface brings a fresh look and a stronger foundation for what’s coming next.
Every color, icon, and layout choice has been carefully designed for a clean, modern and harmonious 
user experience.

The Talent Catalog’s redesign isn’t just about looks — it’s about building a scalable, maintainable,
and user-centered foundation for the future.

We’re excited to hear your impressions as you explore the new interface!

## Figma and Design Process
- Explain the process (Figma, team workshopping, everything has reason behind it)
- Screenshots of the figma designs and how we were able to turn those into code

## Technical Benefits
- Technical benefits of the new UI, shared components, consistency, easier to make changes

## Feedback
- Welcome feedback, and will be gathering more for phase 2. Do we create a public slack channel for 
UI feedback? Or introduce a google survey in a couple of months?

Include before & after images of key pages to show the transformation

Commit message:

Release notes 2.4.0 - update UI redesign section with new features and benefits

docs/v240/tc_ui_redesign.md, after:

---
title: Release Notes 2.4.0
description: TC UI Redesign - Phase 1
sass:
  style: compressed
---

## Introducing Our New UI: Cleaner, Sharper, and More Scalable
The Talent Catalog just got a major visual refresh. 🚀
Our new interface brings a fresh look and a stronger foundation for what’s coming next.
Every color, icon, and layout choice has been carefully designed for a clean, modern and harmonious 
user experience.

The Talent Catalog’s redesign isn’t just about looks — it’s about building a scalable, maintainable,
and user-centered foundation for the future.

We’re excited to hear your impressions as you explore the new interface!

## What’s New in This Phase
- **New color palette** aligned with the TC brand
- **Reusable TC components** for buttons, inputs, tables, modals, and more
- **Unified typography and spacing system** for improved readability
- **Improved code maintainability** one change now updates across all pages
- **Consistent user experience** across all admin portal pages

## Technical Benefits
- Technical benefits of the new UI, shared components, consistency, easier to make changes

## Feedback
- Welcome feedback, and will be gathering more for phase 2. Do we create a public slack channel for 
UI feedback? Or introduce a google survey in a couple of months?

Include before & after images of key pages to show the transformation
