---
title: Job Chats
sass:
  style: compressed
---

With tha advent of direct employer access it means that not all users of the Talent Catalog will be
on Slack. This has been one of the drivers behind the need for Job Chats to be placed directly 
within Talent Catalog, allowing all users to communicate with each other. We've also acknowledged 
that there are often multiple modes of communication, such as Slack, email, WhatsApp, Trengo; and 
that sometimes there can be non-standard ways in which, for instance, Slack communication channels 
are created. All of this can lead to a confusing communication landscape and communication fatigue
for users.

The intention behind Job Chats is to provide a unified, automated, centrally accessible and secure
way for Talent Catalog users (employers, destinations, source partner, and candidates) to 
communicate with each other regarding job opportunities and candidate relocation. The video demos 
and sections below introduce Job Chats from the perspective of the different kinds of Talent Catalog
users. 

You can of course continue to use Slack and other modes of communication, as you currently use, but
we hope in time you will see the value of using Job Chats directly in the Talent Catalog.


# Employers and Destination Partners

Destination partners, including employers such as Iress, can communicate about jobs and candidate 
cases with other interested parties, such as source partners and candidates, directly from the 
Talent Catalog using Job Chats. This means that there is no need for an employer to use Slack. Job 
Chats provides a standard and unified way to communicate about jobs and candidate cases.

For example, employers (and destination partners) can communicate directly with individual source 
partners regarding a job opportunity. They may also communicate in **group chats** with all source 
partners at once. For candidates and cohorts who have received and accepted job offers a special 
group chat focussed on relocation is also available for the employer and all parties, including 
candidates, to communicate.

<div class="card-image-container">
  <img src="./../assets/images/v220/JobChatsEmployer.png" 
        alt="Candidate Registration and Consents" class="card-image">
</div>


# Source Partner Job Chats

Source partners like TBB, CRS, and others who are working individual candidate cases can send and 
receive communications directly from the Talent Catalog regarding a particular candidate case. They 
may communicate one-to-one with the candidate, or with both the candidate and employer together 
depending on the nature and need of the communication.

<div class="card-image-container">
  <img src="./../assets/images/v220/JobChatsSource.png" 
        alt="Candidate Registration and Consents" class="card-image">
</div>


# Candidate Job Chats

Candidates have always been able to see their registration profile in the Talent Catalog candidate
portal. They have tasks in the candidate portal, which are planned to be used more extensively in 
the future to help scale through automation. With this update, under the new Jobs tab, candidates 
are now able to send and receive job opportunity related communications directly from the Talent 
Catalog.

Candidates can communicate one-to-one with their local source partner, for example TBB or CRS in 
Indonesia. They can communicate with their local partner plus the employer (or destination partner) 
when they are up to at least CV review stage. Lastly, upon accepting a job offer, they can 
communicate with the relocating cohort of candidates, their local support partner and of course the
destination partner or employer.

<div class="card-image-container-narrow">
  <img src="./../assets/images/v220/JobChatsCandidate.png" 
        alt="Candidate Registration and Consents" class="card-image">
</div>

